# <Unravelling the molecular mechanisms causal to type 2 diabetes across global populations and disease-relevant tissues>

# OmicsMR
Scripts needed to perform cis-MR using eQTL and pQTL summary stats.  
The scripts for eQTL and pQTL represent exactly the same procedure but have been generated by different people, explaining the subdivision into two folders. 

The scripts are ordered in two folders
* eQTL_MR 
Scripts used for the eQTL MR and the Pwcoco analyses.  
The notebook 'Processing_files_beforeMR' corresponds to the processing of the files needed to make the MR functions run.  
The notebook 'Process_Run_MR_MultipleQTLs' corresponds to the whole pipeline to run MR with application on different cohorts.  
The notebook 'Run_PWCoCo' corresponds to the colocalization analysis.

* pQTL_MR
Scripts used for the pQTL MR and the Pwcoco analyses.
The scripts are ordered in the order of analyses: first MR, then coloc.  
Examples are provided on how to run them in arrays over the different datasets and proteins.

Additionally, the script to run the MDE calculations (proxy of expected power) applied to the pQTL MR is given. Scripts used to perform post-MR analyses are also provided, including a script used to compare the genes found to be causal to disease risk to disease effector genes previously established, a script to compare the MR findings across tissues to previously defined genetic profiles of disease, and a script to compare MR findings with diabetes-related genes.

The following versions were used:
- TwoSampleMR: 0.5.9
- metafor: 4.6
- PLINK: 1.9
